India's No. 1 Private University
& Top 400 globally
PROSPECTUS 2023



7-10
11-12
13-20
21-32
33-38
39-44
45-48
49-53
54-59
60-63
Message from our Founders
Introduction: Shoolini University
Faculty of Applied Sciences & Biotechnology
Faculty of Engineering and Technology
Faculty of Management Sciences
Faculty of Liberal Arts & Ancient Wisdom
Faculty of Legal Sciences
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Faculty of Science
Faculty of Agriculture
Other Information 64-70
Welcome to a University Synonymous 
with Excellence
Dear Students and Parents
Prof Prem Kumar Khosla
Founder & Chancellor
I'm delighted to announce that Shoolini university has 
made significant strides in improving its national and 
global rankings. It has been ranked among the top 
200 global universities in the Times Higher Education 
(THE) Impact Rankings 2022, fulfilling a 10-year-old 
vision. 
Furthermore, the university has achieved the
remarkable feat of being ranked second globally in 
the Sustainable Development Goals category for
affordable and clean energy, as well as sixth in the 
clean water and sanitation category. Additionally, in 
the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 
Rankings, Shoolini has advanced from the 96th
position to the 73rd position.
Our university has attained an impressive h-index of 
102, which not only makes us the highest-ranking
institution in northern India but also places us second 
in the country among institutions established after 
2008. Notably, seven of our researchers are
included in Stanford University's prestigious list of 
Top 2% scientists worldwide. Shoolini University also 
stands as the leading patent filer in the country, with 
over 1200 filed patents. Recognizing our dedication 
to cutting-edge research and our high h-index, the 
Department of Science and Technology,
Government of India, has selected our university for a 
grant of Rupees 9.0 crores under the Promotion of 
University Research and Scientific Excellence 
(PURSE) project.
In alignment with our commitment to meeting the 
evolving needs of the modern era, we have introduced a range of online and distance education programmes. To start with, we have launched online 
courses, such as MBA, BBA, BAJMC and MA in English 
Literature.
We firmly believe that a great university drives
cutting-edge knowledge and innovation while
simultaneously working towards the social and
economic upliftment of the community. It is this 
belief, along with our internationally qualified faculty, 
our focus on student careers and placements, our
ongoing innovations in pedagogy and our highly
motivated students, that places Shoolini University as 
a progressive and dynamic institution in the global 
knowledge economy.
The University has developed more than 140
meaningful international partnerships with esteemed 
institutions such as the University of Melbourne,
University of British Columbia, Western Sydney
University, Seoul National University, University of 
Ulster, Chung Yuan Christian University, Lanzhou
University, Arkansas University, to name a few.
We pride ourselves in nurturing the creative
potential of each student and providing them 
high-quality educational opportunities, knowing that 
they hold the key to India’s greatness.
It is my pleasure to invite you to be a part of Shoolini 
University and help build an institution all of us are 
proud to be associated with. Please do not hesitate to 
reach out to me for any questions or queries.
I look forward to hearing from you.
Prof Prem Kumar Khosla
An internationally renowned academician, with post
doctorate in genetics from Oxford University, UK.
Prof Khosla has added new dimensions
to higher education and research in
Indian Universities. He has served as
Vice-Chancellor, HPAU, Palampur (HP)
and Shoolini University, Solan. As
Senior Scientific Advisor to the
Government of Himachal
Pradesh, he has been
responsible for guiding its
biotechnology policy.
I welcome you to a journey of innovation and
learning that is bound to transform your life.
Shoolini University was seeded with a vision to
create a modern learning and innovation village
nestled in the Himalayas. Over the past decade,
as we built this beautiful ecosystem, each day in
the campus has inspired the entire Shoolini
community to think and deliver beyond the
obvious.
As I speak, we at Shoolini have achieved
recognitions at national as well as international
platforms. I am happy to share that as you
become a member of the Shoolini community,
you are joining a campus that is already
amongst the Top 300 in Asia and the Top 20 in
India.
I recall our student Vivek Soni, a young boy who
joined Shoolini about 7 years back for his
master’s programme. He belonged to a small
village in Himachal and spent 2 years working
on his idea at Shoolini. With that, he received
the opportunity to join a fully-paid scholarship
to one of the leading universities in South Korea.
In 2019, while I was visiting Seoul, I received a
call from him. He mentioned to me that he has
launched a startup in Seoul that is funded by a
leading funding agency there.
Vishal Anand
Founder & Pro Chancellor
Stories like these are the reason we built
Shoolini.
Life at Shoolini is very different. While you are
here, you get to work with the local
communities, solve real-world problems and
challenges, experience adrenalin while you trek
the peaks surrounding this beautiful campus, or
just pick up your camera and start clicking the
many moods of the day at Shoolini. We host
multiple clubs and peer learning platforms to
enable the full potential of your life.
My advice to you friends is to really challenge
yourselves each day when you are a part of this
exciting community. I welcome you to Shoolini
University.
are here, you get to work with the local
communities, solve real-world problems
and challenges, experience adrenalin
while you trek the peaks surrounding
this beautiful campus, or just
pick up your camera and
start clicking the many
moods of the day at
Shoolini.
Vishal Anand
Prof. Atul Khosla is the Founder and Vice Chancellor of Shoolini 
University. He is a B Tech from the IIT Kanpur and MBA from Jamnalal 
Bajaj Institute of Management Sciences, Mumbai.
A diehard socialist, Prof. Atul is on a mission to change lives. He brings 
out-of-the-box thinking to the field of education. He drives new initiatives 
at Shoolini—starting innovative academic programmes, incorporating 
new methodologies of pedagogy, and building cutting-edge education 
technology platforms. He has cut his professional teeth at McKinsey and 
Oliver Wyman. His strong values, substantial experience and sheer 
energy have taken Shoolini from strength to strength. He is truly 
invested in the future of young India.
Prof. Atul has been an entrepreneur for more than 15 
years – he has founded and led multiple new 
initiatives. In addition, he has advised several Indian 
and global organisations on issues of strategy, 
operations and innovation – he is/ has been 
Independent Director with Gabriel India, 
Director with Innohive (a social incubator), 
Senior Advisor to Ankur Capital (India’s 
leading social VC fund), advisor to 
SEBI Chairman (India’s Security 
Regulator), and advisor to Global 
management of Swiss Re, 
among others.
A full-time academician, apart 
from managing the operations 
of the University, Prof. Atul 
teaches Finance and Strategy 
and is a guest faculty at 
several Indian and Global 
Universities.

Shoolini, among
India’s top private universities
Shoolini University is a leader in the field of academics and has made
giant strides towards delivering quality education and research, and
figures among Top 10 private universities in the country as per QS
ASIA 2021 Rankings.
We are a non-profit multi-disciplinary private university, and we aspire
to provide quality and relevant education to our students at an
have designed our business model around five areas of focus:
attracting and retaining top national & international faculty; forging
alliances with industry & academia of repute; governing through values
& transparency; building world class & environment friendly
infrastructure; and attracting brilliant & needy students.
Nationally and internationally renowned academicians form the faculty
at Shoolini University; one & a half dozen are post-docs and 65 PhDs
who are involved in guiding innovative research to over 200 PhD
scholars in a vibrant research environment.
The University has attracted more than Rupees 200 million as research
grants on biotech related projects, which are funded by various
national organizations. Shoolini has strategic academic alliances with
leaders such as Genpact and several universities across the globe.

PhD, Post-Doc,
Dept of Pathology, University of Kentucky,
USA & Max-Planck Institute for Plant
Breeding Research, Germany
Dean
Prof Saurabh Kulshreshtha
Prof Saurabh is an expert in plant-microbe interactions,
having conducted postdoctoral research at the University
of Kentucky in the United States and the Max - Planck Institute
for Plant Breeding Research in Köln, Germany. Under the Himalayan
Biodiversity Mission Project, his research group is creating
mycovirus-based biocontrol formulation to tackle fungal pathogens of 
Himalayan fruit and vegetable crops. The group is also investigating the 
miraculous moringa tree’s water purifying capabilities and nutritional 
benefits, as well as producing wound healing compositions using this 
plant. Prof Saurabh collaborated with HENKEL Germany on the
development of a Moringa-based solution for the treatment of Solan 
wastewater. His team's water purification kit has won various national 
and international accolades, including the renowned DST- Lockheed 
Martin-Tata Trusts award.
Prof Saurabh began his research carrier at CSIR-Institute of Himalayan 
Bioresource Technology in Palampur. He has over three dozen research 
papers published in high-impact journals and over two dozen patents 
filed, several of which have been granted.
Considered among the best in the country in the BioSpectrum rankings, the Faculty of Applied Sciences and Biotechnology research focuses on bio-molecular engineering, drug 
discovery for cancer, and microbid infections host-pathogen 
interaction, biodiversity and omics of extremophiles cloning 
and molecular characterization of industrially important proteins and enzymes, bio-fertilizers and bio-pesticides. 
The Faculty of Applied Sciences Biotechnology enjoys excellent reputation for well qualified and learned faculty which 
include a dozen post docs trained from various institutions in 
USA and Europe. The Biotechnology Corporate Resource 
Centre acts as an interface between the students, teachers, 
and the corporate world for continuous interaction with the 
industry, sharing the industry experiences, understanding 
industry needs and providing the required support to the 
corporate world. The corporate partners include Biocon Ltd, 
Nestle, Pepsico, Abbott, Sentis Pharma, Dabur Ltd, Jubilant 
Organosys Ltd, Ocimum Bio-solutions and Nectar Life-Sciences Ltd.
The Faculty has also academic alliances for exchange of students with Seoul National University, South Korea, Ulster 
University, Northern Ireland, University of Arkansas, USA, 
University of Naples, Italy, Lanzhou University, China, Sierra 
Bio Life, Australia, Chung Yuan Christian University, Taiwan 
and Transgenic Life Sciences & National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources for collaborative biotech research and Upkar 
Pharmaceuticals, Tirupati Medicare and NutraHelix for 
strengthening programmes in Food Technology. It has 
formed mutually beneficial links with various industries for 
commercialising research leads of the university and students’ projects and training.
Himachal’s first commercial food testing laboratory has been 
set up with a financial outlay of Rs. 2.85 crore funded by 
Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MOFPI), Government 
of India. The faculty has also received a DST FIST grant of Rs. 
65 lakh for setting up a proteomics facility at the university. 
The DST along with HPPIC, SCSTE (Shimla) also sponsored 
an IPR cell at the University.
In addition, the university has also received a financial 
assistance of Rs. 73.71 lakh under the Human Resource 
Development Scheme for creation of Infrastructure Development facilities for B Tech & M Tech Food technology courses by the MOFPI. The project includes financial 
assistance for the purchase of 26 major machines and 
equipment related to food processing, canning line and 
dairy processing line. The financial grant also includes an 
assistance of Rs. 5 lakh for the purchase of more than 
500 book titles in the subject of food technology. The 
university is also looking forward to producing marketable food, vegetable and dairy based products tailored 
by the food processing units at a pilot scale.
Further to satisfy the requirements of the biotech industry, our graduates are imparted practical training in plant 
tissue culture, biotransformation, fermentation, Molecular biology, ROT, industrial microbes screening and production, biochemical analysis and standardization of 
analytical instruments. Graduate and post-graduate students are required to undertake research/ projects.
Summit Research Programme - A reimagined B Tech 
Biotechnology degree programme
Shoolini has taken the lead to develop a unique research 
oriented degree programme that prepares students for 
global opportunities at leading academic institutions 
and corporate R&D teams. Fully integrated with regular 
engineering curriculum, the Summit Research programme provides hands-on exposure to high quality 
research, experience with writing technical papers, personal mentorship and interactions with internationally 
acclaimed research practitioners and experts.
Work with faculty and PhD students on live cutting-edge 
research
Option to study and conduct lab work in premier universities abroad
Get individually mentored by academicians and 
practitioners
Need-Blind Admission policy
Anticancer and Immunomodulation Drugs
Antimicrobials and Nano-Particle Based Drugs
Bio-fertilizers and Pest Biocontrol
Bioremediation and Crop Improvement
Conservation of Himalayan Biodiversity
Desiccation and Salinity Tolerance in Crops
Etiology of Human Diseases
Genetic Diagnostics of Pathogens
Genomics, Proteomics, and Enzyme Mining
Low Cost Food Processing Engineering
Nutraceuticals
Plant Host-Pathogen Interaction
Probiotics
Biosensor Technology 
Faculty Members
Professor of Eminence/Adjunct Faculty
Prof DR Sharma
PhD, Former Head, Biotech Dept& Director (Res), UHF, Solan;
Professor of Eminence
Prof Steven L Stephenson
PhD; Fulbright specialist, University of Arkansas, USA;
Adjunct Professor
Dr Manoj K Kashyap
PhD; Adjunct Professor
Dr Kamlesh Kanwar
PhD; Adjunct Professor
Professors
Prof Saurabh Kulshreshtha
PhD, Post-Doc, Dept of Pathology, University of Kentucky,
USA & Germany
Assistant Professors/ Lecturers
Dr Nitika Thakur PhD, NET
Dr Pradeep Kumar PhD
Dr Debajyoti Bose, PhD
Dr Gaurav Saxena, PhD
Dr. Jyoti Mehta, PhD
Dr Lokender Kumar, PhD, Post Doc
Dr Rohit Sharma, PhD, Post Doc
Dr Vihang Vivek Ghilasi, PhD
• BSc (Hons) Biotechnology
• BSc (Hons) Microbiology
• MSc Biotechnology 
• MSc Microbiology 
• M Tech Biotechnology
• PhD Biotechnology
• PhD Microbiology
• PhD Cancer Biology
• PhD Genetics Engineering
• PhD Genetics
BSc (Hons) Biotechnology
Eligibility: 10+2 in PCM/PCB with minimum 55%
marks
Duration: 8 semesters
BSc (Hons) Microbiology
Eligibility: 10+2 in PCM/PCB with minimum
55% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
MSc Biotechnology
Eligibility: BSc/ B Tech with Biotechnology/ Micro
biology/ Biochemistry/ Life or Physical Sciences as
one of the subjects or a bachelor’s degree in any
branch of science & technology with minimum 60%
marks
Duration: 6 semesters
Current Areas of Research
Dr Azhar Khan
PhD, Post Doc (USA)
Dr Chandresh Kumari, PhD
Dr Swati, PhD
Dr Vishal Sharma, PhD
Dr Kamika Thakur, PhD
PhD Genetics Engineering
Eligibility: Two years master’s degree in Science/ Technology/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters 
PhD Genetics 
Eligibility: Two years master’s degree in in Science/ Technology/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters 
Merit of the qualifying examination or otherwise specified entrance exams for the following programmes:
B. Tech: Through NEET/JEE/ HPCET or any equivalent entrance test recognized by HP Government. Vacant seats, after 
exhausting the merit list of JEE/HPCET, are to be filled based on merit of 10+2.
PhD: Through Shoolini University Entrance Test followed by personal interview. JRF/NET/SET/M Phil qualified candidates 
are exempted from entrance test.
MSc Microbiology
Eligibility: BSc with Microbiology/ Biotechnology/ Biochemistry/ Life Sciences as one of the subject with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
M Tech Biotechnology
Eligibility: B Tech/ MSc in Biotechnology/ Microbiology/
Biochemistry or any other branch of Life Sciences with
minimum of 50% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
PhD Biotechnology
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Bio-engineering/Life 
Sciences/ Physical Sciences/ related discipline with minimum of 55% marks OR 4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 
75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters 
PhD Microbiology
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Bio-engineering/ Life 
Sciences/ Physical Sciences/ Microbiology/ related discipline with minimum of 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters 
PhD Cancer Biology 
Eligibility: Two years master’s degree in Bio-engineering/Life Sciences/ Physical Sciences/ related discipline with 
minimum of 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters 
Photo
Faculty Members
Professor of Eminence/Adjunct & Visiting Faculty
Prof Umesh Kumar Kohli, PhD; Post-Doc, (Washington State 
University, USA); Professor of Eminence
Dr Ramesh C. Chandan PhD; Adjunct Professor
Dr VK Joshi PhD; Adjunct Professor
Dr CK Shirkot PhD; Adjunct Professor
Dr BB Lal Kaushal PhD; Visiting Professor
Professors
Dr Dinesh Kumar
PhD, PG Diploma in Bio-informatics, GATE, PGDCA,
Post Doc experience in Ireland & Netherlands
Dr Somesh Sharma 
PhD NET
Dr PK Chauhan
PhD NET
• BSc (Hons) Food Technology
• BSc Nutrition and Dietetics
• B Tech Biotechnology Research
• B Tech Biotechnology (Lateral Entry)
• B Tech Food Technology Research
• B Tech Food Technology (Lateral Entry)
• M Tech Food Technology
• MSc Food Technology
• MSc Nutrition and Dietetics
• PhD Food Technology
Associate Professors
Dr Rupak Nagraik, PhD
Ms Diksha Kumari Sharma, MSc, PhD (Pursuing), 
Asst Professor cum TA
Ms Srishti Mathur, M Sc, PhD (Pursuing)
Ms Tanbeer Kaur, M Sc, PhD (Pursuing)
Assistant Professors/ Lecturers
Dr Chavan Praful Devrao, PhD
Dr Vandana, PhD
Dr Avinash, PhD
Dr Poonam, PhD
Dr Rekha, PhD
BSc (Hons) Food Technology
Eligibility: 10+2 in PCM/PCB with minimum 55% marks 
Duration: 8 semesters 
BSc Nutrition and Dietetics
Eligibility: 10 +2 PCB with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 6 semesters 
B Tech Biotechnology Research (4 years)
Eligibility: 10+2 with any of the three following subjects 
— physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science 
/ electronics / information technology / biology / informatics practices / biotechnology / technical vocational 
subject / agriculture / engineering graphics / business 
studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters 
B Tech Biotechnology (Lateral Entry)
Eligibility: Passed Minimum THREE years / TWO years 
(Lateral Entry) Diploma examination with at least 60% 
marks in ANY branch of Engineering and Technology OR 
Passed B.Sc. Degree with at least 60% marks.
Duration: 6 semesters 
B Tech Food Technology Research (4 years)
Eligibility: 10+2 with any of the three following subjects 
— physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science 
/ electronics / information technology / biology / informatics practices / biotechnology / technical vocational 
subject / agriculture / engineering graphics / business 
studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters 
B Tech Food Technology (Lateral Entry)
Eligibility: Passed Minimum THREE years / TWO years 
(Lateral Entry) Diploma examination with at least 60% 
marks in ANY branch of Engineering and Technology OR 
Passed B.Sc. Degree with at least 60% marks.
Duration: 6 semesters 
M Tech Food Technology
Eligibility: B. Tech/ MSc in Food Technology/ Agriculture/ Biotechnology or any other branch of Life Sciences 
with minimum of 50% marks
Duration: 4 semesters 
MSc Food Technology 
Eligibility: BSc in any stream with minimum of 55% marks, 
Duration: 4 semester
MSc Nutrition and Dietetics
Eligibility: BSc in any stream with minimum 50% marks, 
Duration 4 semesters
PhD Food Technology
Eligibility: Four years graduation degree/ Master’s degree in Food 
Technology/ Life Sciences/ Physical Sciences/ related discipline 
with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with 
minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks , 
Duration 6 semesters
Photo
Merit of the qualifying examination or otherwise specified entrance exams for the following programmes:
B. Tech: Through JEE/ HPCET or any equivalent entrance test recognized by HP Government. Vacant seats, after exhausting the merit list of JEE/HPCET, are to be filled based on merit of 10+2.
M. Tech: Through GATE/HPCET or any other recognized entrance test followed by Personal Interview. Vacant seats, after 
exhausting the merit list of GATE/HPCET, are to be filled based on merit of B Tech with candidates.
PhD: Through Shoolini University Entrance Test followed by personal interview. JRF/NET/SET/M Phil qualified candidates 
are exempted from entrance test.
Reservation of seats for bonafide Himachali/ SC/ ST/ physically handicapped/economically weaker section candidates 
as per the rules of Himachal Pradesh & Central Government.
Number of seats for Lateral Entry as per AICTE norms.
Minimum eligibility marks relaxable for SC/ST/backward classes and others as per the rules of
Himachal Pradesh Government.
Roaster for admissions as per HP Government rules.
Criteria for admissions to professional courses shall be in accordance with HP government Notification No. EDN (TE) 
F (10) 2/2018 dated 4th May 2018.
Photo
Hospitality and H spitality and Hotel Administration
Hospitality and H spitality and Hotel Administration
Ph D (PU), ME (PEC), & BE (DCE)
Dean
A doctorate from Panjab University, Chandigarh. 
Prof. Virender Rihani specializes in the area of artificial intelligence. He started using artificial neural networks in year 1992. He 
has developed systems for detection of eye diseases, tumours of 
brain, recognition of printed Bengali, Gurmukhi and Hindi characters, 
prediction of stock market and many more. He has about 41 years of 
teaching and research. He has guided about 50 ME/MTech dissertations in the area the area of Processor Design, Pattern Recognition, Robotics, AI etc. He has handled many prestigious consultancies problems 
both for Government sector as well as Private sector. He has worked in 
Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh and in a private university. He 
has also worked as OSD to Chandigarh Administration for establishing 
CCET, Chandigarh. He is a fellow of Institution of Engineers (India) and 
Senior Member of IEEE. He is on panel of experts of DRDO, CSIR and a 
member of peer team of NBA.
Shoolini University is fast growing into a world class University with 
focus on high level innovative research with a multidisciplinary approach. With ever increasing demand and expectations from the 
present-day engineers, we are gearing up to prepare highly trained 
and skilled engineers and technologists to face the challenges of 
the fast changing technologically advanced world. 
The Faculty of Engineering and Technology at Shoolini University is 
distinguished as one of the top ranked engineering schools in India 
committed to excellence in qualitative teaching, robust learning and 
proactive research with the aim to create highly qualified engineers 
and technologists with strong research knowledge base who can 
make a difference in the society with their high impact research and 
innovative interventions. 
The students at undergraduate level undertake innovative research 
projects which will further evolve them into highly trained world 
class researchers at Masters and PhD level. The curriculum integrates engineering with science and improves student understanding of technology and will prepare them to adopt multidisciplinary 
research approach. 
Shoolini University’s ‘Sprint Program’ is designed to significantly 
upgrade soft skills and capabilities of its engineering and technology students. Led by top corporate and industry leaders, leading 
entrepreneurs and professional trainers, the program involves exhaustive sessions on current affairs in relevant industry domains, 
soft skills, personal interviews and group discussion based on 
highly interactive approach. It is an accelerated learning program 
designed after Stanford’s mini MBA.
Centers of Excellence
Faculty of Engineering & Technology has established following 
Centre of Excellence to provide wider opportunities to the students: 
• Centre for Automobile Education and Research
Shoolini University has established the Centre of Excellence for 
Automobile Engineering by joining hands with leading industries in Automotive Engineering to achieve excellence and to 
produce entrepreneurs and technocrats. It is the first such 
Centre in the region providing academic excellence in Automo 
bile Engineering at undergraduate, master’s and doctoral 
level, along with imparting training to upgrade skills required 
by the industry.
• Centre of Excellence in Renewable Energy Technology 
This Centre aims for promoting research in energy efficiency 
and the adoption of renewable energy sources like solar, 
wind, geothermal, small hydro, biomass, etc. to meet energy 
requirements by considering implementation of renewable 
energy policies at local, regional, and national levels. It will 
further explore current, new and alternate energy technologies including hybrid of renewable, conventional sources and 
fossil fuels to develop innovative technologies. The main 
research programme highlights of the Centre are focused on:
Increase in the share of clean power: Renewable (Bio, wind, 
hydro, solar, geothermal & tidal) electricity to supplement 
fossil fuel-based electricity generation.
Energy Availability and Access: Supplement energy needs 
for cooking, heating, power generation in rural, urban, 
industrial and commercial sectors.
Energy Affordability: Cost-competitive, convenient, 
safe.
Energy Equity: Per-capita energy consumption at par with 
the global average level by 2050, through a sustainable 
and diverse fuel- mix.
Wind, solar & other renewable energy resource assessment 
in the Himalayan region. 
Solar power generation; solar roof top power plants.
Energy & Environment Policy concerns. 
Solar thermal; Concentrated solar development & applications.
Energy storage; Renewable based hybrid energy Systems
Passive solar heating and cooling technologies; Green 
buildings; Energy conservation efficiency in industry & 
buildings.
Energy Security: Lesser dependence on oil imports 
through development and deployment of alternate fuels 
(hydrogen, biofuels and synthetic fuels) and the applications to contribute by bridging the gap between domestic 
oil supply and demand.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
International Students and Faculty Exchange
As a part of international tie-ups with various organizations, Shoolini University has in place an exchange programme for students and faculty to pursue studies and 
undertake research at respective foreign Institutions. 
Under the student exchange programme, more than 
200 students have gone for studies and research in 
various reputed universities/ institutions in South 
Korea, Taiwan, China, Italy, South Africa, Australia, and 
USA. In South Korean universities, they have been 
awarded fellowships to meet their boarding, lodging 
and tuition fee expenses worth Rs.5 Lakh/semester. As 
many as forty students have also availed higher studies 
opportunity in different foreign Universities with scholarship worth Rs. 10-12 lakh/year. From outside India, 
twenty students from South Korean, China, Turkey, Afghanistan, Ethiopia and Taiwanese are studying at 
Shoolini University. 
On the faculty exchange front, Dr Hyoung–In-Lee, Research Professor from Seoul National University and 
On Cham Lee taught Shoolini B Tech students for a 
fortnight. A number of foreign teachers are currently 
teaching at campus. The university has a regular foreign faculty teaching German and Chinese languages 
at the campus.
• Centre for Excellence in Visionary Learning 
 Community of India (VLCI)
This Centre has been established by Padam Shri Professor Shoji Shiba in collaboration with Japan International 
Cooperation Agency (JICA) and Confederation of Indian 
Industries (CII). The aim of the program is to create 
great visionaries/leaders to upgrade the standard of 
Indian manufacturing sector and to create industry 
ready students.
• Remote Centre for “AAKASH for Education”, IIT 
 Bombay
This remote Centre is running in the school of electrical 
and computer science engineering. The Centre has excellent infrastructure and good faculty with expertise 
and experience 
• Amazon Web Services (AWS) Academy
This academy provides training and certification model 
designed to validate the knowledge of professionals as 
per the growing and changing demands of the IT industry. To keep up with the standards, one can take the certification and expect a great rise in terms of position and 
pay scale of course.
Facilities 
Mechanical Engineering Workshop/ Well-equipped Mechanical and Civil Engineering labs/ Physics & Chemistry Labs/ 
Computer Labs with broadband connectivity OptiPlex Dell 
high end machines/ Electrical Engineering Labs/ Electronics 
& Communication Labs/ Computer Science & Engineering 
Lab/ CAD/CAM Lab/ Tinkering Lab/ Seminar Halls/ Tutorial 
Rooms 
Current areas of research
• Big Data
• Image Processing
• Cloud Computing
• Wireless Sensor & Networks
• Cryptography & Network Security
• Transparent Conducting Oxide Films
• Integrated Micro/ Nano Photonics
• Robotics and Automation
• MEMS and NEMS
• Mechatronics
• Nanotechnology
• Heat Transfer
• Material Science
• Hydro Turbines
• Manufacturing Technology
• Renewable Energy (solar, wind, biomass, etc.)
• Mechanical Design
• Automobile Engineering
• Civil Engineering (earthquake, transport, building 
 material, green building passive solar design &
 engineering)
Dr SR Prabhakar, PhD (Metallurgical Engg.); Professor of 
Eminence; Mechanical
Dr Rajinder Abhange, B Tech; Visiting Faculty
Er S Acharya, B Tech, MBA; Visiting Faculty
Mr Pravesh Srivastava, B Tech, MBA; Visiting Faculty
Maj Gen AK Chaturvedi (Retd), M Tech, M Phil, PhD; Visiting Faculty
Dr HyoungIn Lee, PhD; Seoul National University; Visiting 
Faculty
Dr Harish Chandan, PhD; Adjunct Professor
Professors
Prof Virender Rihani, M Tech, PhD
Prof Mohindra Singh Thakur, PhD; Civil
Dr SS Chandel, PhD; Energy
Prof Bhaskar Goel, M Tech, PhD: Mechanical
Dr Ram Prakash Dwivedi, PhD, Post Doc: Information & 
Dr Amar Raj Singh, PhD; Mechanical
Communication Engg
Associate Professors
Dr Robin Thakur, PhD; Mechanical
Dr Raj Kumar, PhD; Mechanical
Dr Raj Kumar Saini, PhD; Electrical Power Systems
Assistant Professors/ Lecturers
Dr Ashwani Sharma, PhD; ECE
Er Sushil Kumar, M Tech; PhD (Pursuing; Mechanical
Er Sorabh Aggarwal, M Tech; PhD (Pursuing); Mechanical
Dr Nitin Kumar Sharma, M Tech, PhD; Mechanical
Dr Arunava Poddar, PhD; Water Resources Engg
Dr Navsal Kumar, PhD
Dr Diksha Chauhan, PhD
Dr Rahul Chandel, PhD; Centre of Energy
Dr Bhupinder Kumar, PhD; Civil
Er Veena Kashyap, B Tech; M Tech; PhD (Pursuing); Civil
Dr Nitisha Sharma, M Tech, PhD (Pursuing); Civil
Ms Amita Verma, M Tech; Sr Lecturer
Er Pankaj Kapoor, M Tech. PhD (Pursuing)
School of Core Engineering
Faculty members
Professors of Eminence/ Adjunct & Visiting Faculty
Dr JP Soni, PhD, Post-doc; Professor of Eminence; Civil
Dr Subhash Chander, PhD, Post-doc; Professor of Eminence; Mechanical
Er CP Mahajan, Professor of Eminence; EEE
Dr GS Virdi, PhD. Post Doc; Professor of Eminence; EEE
Academic programmes
• B Tech Mechanical Engineering (Robotics & AI)
• B Tech Civil Engineering
• B Tech Civil Engineering (Lateral Entry)
• B Tech Renewable Energy & Sustainability
• B Tech ECE 
• B Tech ECE Lateral Entry
• M Tech Civil Engineering
• M Tech ECE
• PhD Mechanical Engineering
• PhD Civil Engineering
• PhD Energy
• PhD ECE
B Tech Mechanical Engineering (Robotics & AI)
Eligibility : 10+2 with any of the three following subjects — 
physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / electronics / information technology / biology / informatics practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
B. Tech Civil Engineering
Eligibility :10+2 with any of the three following subjects — 
physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / electronics / information technology / biology / informatics practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
B Tech Civil Engineering
Lateral Entry
Eligibility :Passed Minimum THREE years / TWO years (Lateral Entry) Diploma examination with at least 60% marks in 
ANY branch of Engineering and Technology OR Passed B.Sc. 
Degree with at least 60% marks and passed 10+2 examination with Mathematics as a subject.
Duration: 6 semesters
Basis of Admissions: 
Merit of the qualifying examination or otherwise specified entrance exams for the following programmes:
• B Tech: NEET/JEE/ SAT or Shoolini University's multiple choice entrance test.
• M Tech: Shoolini University's multiple choice entrance test, and faculty interaction 
• PhD: Shoolini University's multiple choice entrance test, and assessment of research aptitude through concept note & 
faculty interaction
B Tech Renewable Energy & Sustainability
Eligibility : 10+2 with any of the three following subjects — 
physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / electronics / information technology / biology / informatics practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
B Tech ECE 
Eligibility : 10+2 with any of the three following subjects — 
physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / electronics / information technology / biology / informatics practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
B Tech ECE Lateral Entry 
Eligibility :Passed Minimum THREE years / TWO years (Lateral 
Entry) Diploma examination with at least 60% marks in ANY 
branch of Engineering and Technology OR Passed B.Sc. 
Degree with at least 60% marks and passed 10+2 examination 
with Mathematics as a subject.
Duration: 6 semesters
-
M Tech Civil Engineering
Eligibility : B Tech/ BE Civil Engineering or related B Tech/ 
MSc degree with minimum 50% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
M Tech ECE
Eligibility : B Tech ECE or related subjects or MSc in related 
subjects with minimum 50%
Duration: 4 semesters
PhD Mechanical
Eligibility :Two year masters degree in Technology/ Engineering/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Civil
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Technology/ Engineering/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration 6 semesters
PhD ECE
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Technology/ Engineering/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration 6 semesters
PhD Energy
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Technology/ Engineering/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration 6 semesters
Academic Programmers
• B Tech AI (Artificial Intelligence)
• B Tech CSE
• B Tech CSE Artificial Intelligence
• B Tech CSE Cyber Security
• B Tech CSE Data Science
• B Tech Computer Science & Engineering (Lateral Entry)
• B Tech Bioinformatics
• B Tech CSE Cloud Computing
• B Tech CSE DevOps
• B Tech CSE Gaming Design AR/ VR
• B Tech CSE UI/ UX
• B Tech CSE Graphics & Animation
• BCA 
• BCA Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning
• BCA Gaming and Graphics
• BCA Full Stack Developer
• BCA UI/UX
• MCA 2 years
• BA/ B Sc (Hons) Mathematics
• BBA Computer Science & Entrepreneurship (4 years)
• M Tech Computer Science & Engineering
• MA/M Sc Mathematics
• PhD Computer Science & Engineering
• PhD Big Data
• PhD Data Science
• PhD AI, Cloud Computing Tech, Cyber Security, 
 Data Analytics
• PhD Mathematics
Yogananda School of AI, Computer & Data Sciences 
Faculty Members
Professors
Prof Ashish Khosla, BE (PEC), PGDBM (IIM Calcutta);
President and Chief Innovation and Marketing Officer
Dr Pankaj Vaidya, ME, BE; CSE
Associate Professors
Dr Neeraj Gandotra, M Tech, PhD; Maths
Dr Gaurav Gupta, M Tech, PhD; CSE
Dr Ravikant, PhD; CSE
Mr Rohit Khosla, MBA; HRM; Associate Director
Assistant Professors
Dr Namita Gandotra, M Tech, PhD; CSE
Er Sunil Kumar, M Phil, M Tech, M Sc; Maths
Er Brijbushan, M Tech, PhD (Pursuing);
Er Puneet Kapoor, ME
Dr Prachi Agrawal, MSc, PhD
Mr Anurag Rana, M Tech; PhD Pursuing
Ms Bharti Thakur, M Tech, PhD (Pursuing); Computer
Dr Subhra Mishra, PhD
Er Priyanka,PhD (Pursuing)
Er Laxman Singh, M Tech
Er Arvind Sharma, PhD (Pursuing)
Er Anandita Garg, M Tech
B Tech AI (Artificial Intelligence)
Eligibility: 10+2 with any of the three following subjects — 
physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / electronics / information technology / biology / informatics 
practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / 
agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
B Tech CSE 
Eligibility: 10+2 with any of the three following subjects — 
physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / electronics / information technology / biology / informatics 
practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / 
agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
BTech CSE Artificial Intelligence Research
Eligibility: 10+2 with any of the three following subjects — 
physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / electronics / information technology / biology / informatics 
practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / 
agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 70% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
B Tech CSE Cyber Security
Eligibility: 10+2 with any of the three following subjects — 
physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / electronics / information technology / biology / informatics 
practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / 
agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
BTech CSE Data Science
Eligibility: 10+2 with any of the three following subjects — 
physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / electronics / information technology / biology / informatics 
practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / 
agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
B Tech CSE
(LEET)
Eligibility: Passed Minimum THREE years / TWO years 
(Lateral Entry) Diploma examination with at least 60% 
marks in ANY branch of Engineering and Technology OR 
Passed B.Sc. Degree with at least 60% marks and passed 
10+2 examination with Mathematics as a subject.
Duration: 6 Semesters
B Tech Bioinformatics
Eligibility: 10+2 with any of the three following subjects — 
physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / 
electronics / information technology / biology / informatics practices / biotechnology / technical vocational 
subject / agriculture / engineering graphics / business 
studies / entrepreneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
BCA
Eligibility: (Specialisation in UI/UX, Full-stack Developer)
Eligibility: 10+2 Any Stream with minimum marks 55%.
Duration: 6 Semester
BCA Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning
BCA Gaming & Graphics
BCA Full Stack Developer
BCA UI/UX
Eligibility: 10+2 (in any stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
MCA 2 years
Eligibility: BSc/ BA or BCA degree with Mathematics as 
one of the subjects at 10+2 level/ graduation with mini
-
mum 50% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
BA/ BSc (Hons) Mathematics
Eligibility: 10+2 in any stream with Mathematics as one of 
the subjects with minimum marks 50%
Duration: 6 semesters
BBA Computer Science & Entrepreneurship (4 years)
Eligibility: 10+2 (in any stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
M Tech Computer Science & Engineering
Eligibility: B Tech/ BE Computer Science & Engineering or 
related BTech/ MSc with minimum 50% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
MA/ MSc Mathematics
Eligibility: Graduation in any stream with Mathematics as 
one of the subjects with minimum marks 50%
Duration: 4 semesters
MSc Data Science
Eligibility: Graduation degree in Science/ Technology, Engineering, CSE or any other related discipline with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
-
PhD CSE
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Computer Science/ 
Engineering / related discipline with minimum of 55% 
marks OR 4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Big Data
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Computer Science/ Engineering / related discipline with minimum of 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Data Science
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Computer Science/ Engineering / related discipline with minimum of 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD AI, Cloud Computing Tech, Cyber Security, Data Analytics
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Computer Science/ Engineering / related discipline with minimum of 55% marks OR
Duration: 4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related 
discipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
6 semesters
PhD Mathematics
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Computer Science/ Engineering / related discipline with minimum of 55% marks OR
Duration: 4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related 
discipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
6 semesters
Merit of the qualifying examination or otherwise specified entrance exams for the following programmes:
• B Tech: Through JEE/ HPCET or any equivalent entrance test recognized by HP Government. Vacant seats, after exhausting 
 the merit list of JEE/HPCET, are to be filled based on merit of 10+2.
• M Tech: Through GATE/HPCET or any other recognized entrance test followed by Shoolini University multiple choice entrance 
 test and faculty interaction. Vacant seats, after exhausting the merit list of GATE/HPCET, are to be filled based on merit of B 
 Tech with candidates.
• PhD: Shoolini University's multiple choice entrance test, and assessment of research aptitude through concept note & faculty 
 interaction. GATE qualified candidates are expempt from the written exam.
Reservation of seats for bonafide Himachali/ SC/ ST/ physically handicapped/economically weaker section candidates 
as per the rules of Himachal Pradesh & Central Government.
Number of seats for Lateral Entry as per AICTE norms.
Minimum eligibility marks relaxable for SC/ST/backward classes and others as per the rules of
Himachal Pradesh Government.
Roaster for admissions as per HP Government rules.
Criteria for admissions to professional courses shall be in accordance with HP government Notification No. EDN (TE) 
F (10) 2/2018 dated 4th May 2018.
• M Tech: Through GATE/HPCET or any other recognized entrance test followed by Shoolini University multiple choice entrance 
President & Dean
Faculty of Management Sciences
Prof Munish Sahrawat
Prof. Munish is a Business and Academic Leader
with 25 years of diverse experience across Financial Services
(HSBC, Citibank, ANZ) Higher Education (Ashoka
University) and Startups in India, Middle East and Hong Kong,
wherein he delivered key results in di erent customer segments and 
markets. He held COO roles involving inter-disciplinary responsibilities 
for Business Transformation, Operations, Human Resources, Project 
Management, Strategic Planning, Technology, Customer Experience,
Finance, Risk and was involved in few bank acquisitions. His stint at 
Ashoka University saw him work closely with academicians and leading 
industry leaders in building one of the finest liberal education University 
in India.
School of Business Management 
The School of Business Management is an esteemed institution, which maintains high levels of academic excellence and 
innovation in management, provides quality education at an 
affordable price and constantly seeks ways of adding value to 
students. It is dedicated to a core expertise in global management education and focuses on excellence in teaching, promoting lifelong-learning and preparing students for the challenges of tomorrow. It is clubbed among top 102-125 management schools in India by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), Ministry of Human Resource, Government of 
India for the year 2022.
We envisage building the School of Business Management 
into a Centre of Excellence for management education to 
meet the standards and aspirations of the corporate world. 
We aim at developing leaders by providing adequate interaction with leading subject matter experts and exposure to the 
industry. Under the guidance and leadership of Prof Rojhe, 
Dean and ably supported by a team of esteemed and experienced faculty, the Business School is progressing towards its 
goal to be a top centre of learning and research in Business 
Administration.
Focus on Placement
The Shoolini MBA is a fully residential programme. It
prepares you for a successful management career by
building core managerial expertise and personality 
personality development. Our road map is to deliver a 
a unique global education to students, executives and
global management community through 3Rs: Rigour,
Relevance and Reliability. 
Personality Development Modules
• The Communication Effectiveness Module offers 
 best in class techniques on communication 
 skills for interviews & managerial effectiveness.
• Students’ Management Club ‘The Invincible’ for 
 overall development of students.
• Modules developed by leading professional 
 managers are offered on key industry sectors 
 such as banking and financial services with a 
 view to increase the exposure and employability 
 of management students.
Leading professionals as mentors from industry and corporate sector to our students are the hallmark of Shoolini 
University.
Educational tours where students get an opportunity to 
interact with industries and institutes.
Extensive use of modern teaching methodologies, online 
interaction with teachers and online lectures.
Wi-Fi Campus, high speed internet facility, resourceful 
library, intellectual atmosphere and with audio video aids.
Emphasis on Knowledge, Skills and Creative Abilities of 
students through’ Add-on Modules’ Industry Module.
The unique Module for Self-Improvement through meditation and yogic sciences is offered to MBA students for 
building self-confidence and facing challenges in the corporate world.
Active placement & career development cell, which frequently coordinates to give foothold to the students in the 
industry, higher education and entrepreneurship.
School of Business Management conducts campus placements for its students. During placement week a large 
number of MNCs and leading companies visit the campus 
for on spot placements.
Top placement for MBA batch with excellent pay packages 
in reputed companies, such as Genpact, ICICI, Marsh & Mclennan, C-Step, Toyota, Airtel, Tata Hitachi, HDFC Bank, 
Oberoi, Abacus Offshore from Seychelles, Religare India. 
Infoline and many more.
Great summer placements for first year MBA students with 
handsome stipends.
Best in class & Quality Education
Faculty Members
Professors/Directors
Prof Atul Khosla, B Tech (IIT Kanpur), MBA (Jamna Lal Bajaj), 
Senior Partner & Country Head Oliver Wyman, Previous Senior 
Management Positions: a-connect Switzerland, Mckinsey& 
Company India, Everest Group USA; Professor; Vice Chancellor 
and Executive Trustee
Prof Amit Ray, PhD; Distinguished Professor, School of Design
Col TPS Gill, MA (Pub Admin), M Sc (Defence Studies), 
Director YKC
Prof Munish Sahrawat, MBA, Dean, Management Sciences
Prof Narinder Verma, PGDM (IIMC), PGDAC, B Tech (IIT); 
Management Sciences
Mr Pratip Mazumdar, Director, Hospitality & Hotel Management
Dr (Ms) Kesari Singh, PhD, NET; Economics
Mr Sanjeev Singh, Director - HR
Mr Vivek Atray, Electronics Engineering (IAS); 
Mr BK Kaul, Professor of Practice (MDP)
Management Sciences
• Human Resource Management
• Social Gerontology
• Organizational Behaviour
• Networks
• Economic Development
• Agricultural/ Rural Economics
• Consumer Behaviour
• Finance and Banking
• Marketing
• Environment
Governance Support to MBA Programme
Majority of the members of governing body and other 
councils of the university are distinguished professionals, 
business executives and entrepreneurs, who are the source 
of guidance and inspiration for the execution of business 
school programmes and placement of students.
Mr Ramesh K Mehan
BE, MSIE (Kansas State University, USA), MBA (University 
of Dayton, USA); Managing Director of Five Ohio Based 
Companies
Mr Raj Khosla
B Tech (IIT Bombay), MBA; Director Kaefer Insulteo Ltd, 
Thailand
Mr Sudhir Shukla
MBA; Former Senior Vice President, Yamaha India
Mr Ashish Khosla
BE, MBA (IIM Calcutta); Formerly Senior Vice President, 
UNB, Abu Dhabi; Formerly Senior Executive Positions in 
Citibank, HSBC, Marico
Mrs Ashoo Khosla
MBBS (Gold Medalist), MBA (ISB Hyderabad); Formerly 
Head Marketing MNC Trading, Abu Dhabi
Mr Vishal Anand
MBA, Microsoft Certified Professional; Managing Partner, 
Anand Enterprises, Solan
Mrs Nishtha Anand
BA (Hons) English, MA English, PG Diploma in Journalism; 
Chief Editor, Penpundit.com and Techthirsty.com
Globally, hospitality and hotel management are growing sectors. 
According to the World Travel & Tourism Council, India’s travel 
and tourism sector is expected to be the second largest employment provider in the world. Viewing this phenomenal 
growth, tremendous shortage is projected in technically skilled 
professionals at all levels both in Indian and global hospitality 
sector. Our three years B Sc degree in Hospitality and Hotel Administration with a focus to give students key competencies 
related to hospitality business, communications and human relations that will allow them to work in different service sectors 
around the world.
Facilities
IT Centre/ e-Lab/ Language Lab/ Audio-Visual Room/ Mediation Hall/ Tutorial Rooms/ Conference Rooms/ Yoga and Meditation Centre/ Hotel Chalet/ Restaurant/ Bakery/ Shoolini 
Radio/ Seminar Halls/ 
Video-conferencing/ Online Lectures.
BBA (3 years)
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
BBA (Rural Management)
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
BBA Aviation and Management
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
BBA Computer Science & Entrepreneurship
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
BBA Data Analytics, BBA Banking & Insurance, 
BBA Digital Marketing, BBA Financial Markets,
BBA Hospitality, BBA Information Technology,
BBA Logistics & Supply Chain Management
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
B Com(H)
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any stream) with minimum 50% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
BSc Hospitality & Hotel Administration
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
BSc Hospitality and Catering Management
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any Stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 6 Semesters
BSc Travel & Tourism Management
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any Stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 6 Semesters
BA (Hons) Film & Animation
Eligibility: 10+2 (Any stream) with minimum 55% marks.
Duration: 6 semesters 
-
MBA 
Eligibility : Bachelor’s Degree (Any discipline) with mini
mum 50% marks.
Duration: 4 semesters
Associate Professors
Ms Ashoo Khosla, PGDBM; Management Sciences
Ms Avnee Gupta, MBA; Finance
Dr Pooja Verma, PhD MBA, NET; Management Sciences
Dr Kamalkant Vashisth, PhD, NET; Management Sciences
Dr Nitin Gupta, PhD, MBA, PGDPM & LW; Management
Dr Amar Rao, MBA, NET, PhD; Management Sciences
Dr Sandeep Singh, MBA, PhD; HRM
Assistant Professors
Dr Prachi Kapil, MBA; PhD; Management
Dr Vinay Negi, PhD; Marketing
Mr Vijay Kumar, MBA; Management; PhD (Pursuing)
Mr Ankit Shukla, Master of Hotel Management; PhD (Pursuing)
Ms Varsha Patil, CS, B Com; Commerce
MBA
Mr Shard, 
Mr Rishabh Shyam,
Mr Nagendra Yadav, Master in Hotel Management Diploma in 
German Language 
Dr Ankita Verma, MBA, PhD; HR
Dr Rosey Dhanta, PhD
Dr Supriya Srivastava, PhD. NET
Ms Chanderika Thakur, MAB (PhD Pursuing)
Ms Palak Chauhan, MAB (PhD Pursuing)
Reservation of seats for bonafide Himachali/ SC/ ST/ physically handicapped/economically weaker section candidates 
as per the rules of Himachal Pradesh & Central Government.
Number of seats for Lateral Entry as per AICTE norms.
Minimum eligibility marks relaxable for SC/ST/backward classes and others as per the rules of
Himachal Pradesh Government.
Roaster for admissions as per HP Government rules.
Criteria for admissions to professional courses shall be in accordance with HP government Notification No. EDN (TE) 
F (10) 2/2018 dated 4th May 2018.
PhD Management
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Economics/ Management/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with 
minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Applied Economics
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Economics/ Management/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with 
minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 Semesters
PhD Human Resource
Eligibility : Master’s degree in Economics, Business, Management, 
Social Sciences, or any related discipline with minimum 60% 
marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Finance
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Economics/ Management/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with 
minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Public Relations, Project Management, Supply Management
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Economics/ Business/ 
Management/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks 
OR 4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Water Management
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Engineering/ Science/ 
Economics/ Management/ related discipline with minimum 
55% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Disaster Management
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Economics/ Business/ 
Management/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks 
OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration 6 semesters
Merit of the qualifying examination or otherwise specified entrance exams for the following programmes
• MBA: GMAT/CAT/MAT/SAT or state entrance, and letter of intent and faculty interaction, are to be filled on the basis of 
merit of bachelor’s degree with candidates having at least 50% marks
• PhD: Shoolini University's multiple choice entrance test, and assessment of research aptitude through concept note & 
faculty interaction
Prof Deepak Nandkishore 
Kapoor, 
Kapoor, MA, PhD
Dean
Prof Manju Jaidka
Formerly a Professor and Chairperson at Panjab University, 
Chandigarh, Manju Jaidka has held academic and administrative responsibilities at the national as well as international level. 
She is the Founder President MELOW, the Society for the Study of 
the Multi-Ethnic Literatures of the World, an academic association 
with international linkages, which has held twenty-two conferences 
since 1998. Additionally, Jaidka has been the Chairperson of the 
Chandigarh Sahitya Akademi, focusing on the promotion of literary 
activities in Chandigarh.
Manju Jaidka has travelled and lectured extensively in India as well as the 
US, UK, Europe, Canada, China, Nepal, etc. She has received prestigious 
postdoctoral fellowships from the Rockefeller Foundation, the Fulbright 
Foundation, and the UGC, held assignments at universities like Oxford, 
Harvard, Yale, Illinois, Iowa, New York, and Concordia, published extensively 
in her field, and has the distinction of being an award-winning creative 
writer who continues to work on poetry, drama and fiction along with her 
academic assignments. 
English Language & Literature:
A well-known and globally acclaimed Prof Manju Jaidka 
mentors the two-year MA (English) and three-year BA 
(Hons) English courses with the skills needed for professional career in teaching, editing, creative writing and corporate training. Being the part of Sahitya Academy, Chandigarh and several literary bodies, Prof Jaidka’s intellectual 
experience not only help learners to have the insights of 
literary world but also expose them to the needs and requirements of the professional life. Each programme 
covers every genre of language and literature focusing on 
research and career oriented activities.
Being the knowledge partner with various literary events, 
students learn the various aspects related to literature 
through the interaction with renowned personalities of the 
field.
Faculty of Liberal Arts & Ancient Indian Wisdom
Chitrakoot School of Liberal Arts
Academic programmes 
• BA (Hons) Economics & Data Analysis
• BA (Hons) English
• BA (Hons) Hindi
• BA (Hons) History
• BA (Hons) Political Science
• B Des
• BA (Hons) Film & Animation
• MA English Literature
• MA Political Science
• MA History
• PhD History
• PhD Mass Communication
• PhD Sanskrit
• PhD Sociology
• PhD Theology
• PhD Economics
• PhD English
Faculty Members • PhD Political Science
Professors
Prof Manju Jaidka, PhD
Prof Tej Nath Dhar, PhD
Prof Indu Rihani, PhD
Associate Professors
Dr Purnima Bali, PhD
Dr Navreet Kaur Sahi, PhD
Assistant Professors
Dr Kunwar Siddarth Dadhwal, PhD
Dr Ekta Singh, PhD
Mr Neeraj Pizar, MA, PhD (Pursuing)
Mr Rajesh Williams, MA
Mr Hemant Kumar Sharma, MA
Mr Samrat Sharma, MA, PhD (Pursuing)
Mr Ankur Saxena, MA; Music, Dramatic Arts
BA (Hons) Economics & Data Analysis
BA (Hons) English
BA (Hons) Hindi
BA (Hons) History
BA (Hons) Political Science
Eligibility : 10+2 (in any stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
BA (Hons) Film & Animation
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any stream) with minimum 55% marks.
Duration: 6 semesters
B Des
Eligibility : 10+2 (in any stream) with minimum 55% marks, 
Duration: 8 semesters
PhD Mass Communication
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Mass communication or Journalism/ related discipline with minimum 55% 
marks OR 4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Sanskrit
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Sanskrit/ related 
discipline with minimum 55% marks OR 4-year Bachelor’s 
degree with Research in related discipline with minimum 
CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Sociology 
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Social studies/ relat
-
ed discipline with minimum 55% marks OR 4-year Bache
-
lor’s degree with Research in related discipline with mini
-
mum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Theology
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Theology or reli
-
gious studies/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks 
OR 4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related disci
-
pline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Economics
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Economics/ Man
-
agement/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 Semesters
PhD English
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in English Literature/ 
related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
MA English Literature 
Eligibility : Graduation in any discipline with English as one 
of the subject and minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
MA Political Science
Eligibility : Graduation in any discipline with Political Science as one of the subject and minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
MA History
Eligibility : Graduation in any discipline with History as one 
of the subject and minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
PhD History
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in History/ related dis
cipline with minimum 55% marks OR 4-year Bachelor’s 
degree with Research in related discipline with minimum 
CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters PhD Political Science
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Social sciences/ 
Management/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks 
OR 4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related 
discipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
Under the mentorship of well-known and nationally 
acclaimed journalist Mr. Vipin Pubby, a long-term 
former Editor of The Indian Express, the 3-year BA in 
Journalism and Mass Communication course equips 
students with the skills needed for careers in reporting, 
journalism, advertising, news analysis and public relations. During his 37 years+ experience in journalism, 
Vipin Pubby has reported extensively from across the 
country, including from the National Capital, the 
North-East, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, and abroad. He has trained 
hundreds of young journalists many of whom are established names in the national print and electronic 
media.
Facilities
IT Centre/ e-Lab/ Language Lab/ Audio-Visual Room/ 
Mediation Hall/ Tutorial Rooms/ Conference Rooms/ 
Shoolini Radio/ Shoolini TV/ Recording studios/ Seminar Halls/ Video-conferencing/ Online Lectures.
Faculty Members
Professors/Directors
Mr Vipin Pubby, Director, Journalism & Mass
Communication
Mrs Nishtha Shukla, Director - Communication
Associate Professor
Mr Neeraj Kumar, MA; Political Science
Assistant Professors
Dr Prakash Chand, PhD 
Dr Ranjna Thakur, PhD
Dr Nisha Kapoor, PhD 
Ms Indu Negi, Master in Mass Communication, PhD 
(Pursuing)
School of Journalism and New Media
BA Journalism and Mass Communication
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
MA Journalism
Eligibility : Graduation in any discipline with minimum 55%
marks 
Duration: 4 semesters
PhD Journalism
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Journalism/ Social Sciences/ related discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
Mr Paarth Kaushal, Master in Mass Communication, PhD 
(Pursuing)
Academic Programmes
• BA Journalism and Mass Communication
• MA Journalism
• PhD Journalism
Considered as the birthplace of Indian culture including 
yoga, the Himalayas with cool summers and pleasant 
sunny winters are the ideal destination for pursuing 
yogic practices and scientific research. With the declaration of 21st June as International Yoga Day by the United 
Nations, there has been tremendous interest and 
increased awareness of the benefits that practicing yoga 
has on our mental and physical health. As a consequence, several job opportunities are available for yoga 
professionals and researchers in various fields like educational institutions, health resorts, gymnasia, medical 
institutions and therapy centres both within and outside 
the country. Shoolini University is the first institute to 
start B.Sc. Yoga in the region. The programme has been 
designed to provide both theoretical knowledge and 
hands-on training, besides transformational learning of 
students under the direction of experienced teachers, 
spearheaded by Prof PK Khosla, Chancellor.
Facilities
Mediation Hall/ Yoga Centre/ IT Centre/ e-Lab/ Tutorial 
Rooms/ Conference Rooms/ Seminar Halls/ Video-conferencing/ Online Lectures.
Faculty Members
Associate Professors
Dr Subodh Saurabh Singh, PhD
Assistant Professors
Dr Mala Tripathi, PhD
Dr Rohit Chobe, PhD
Ms Bhawna, M Sc, PhD (Pursuing)
Mr Anupama Chandel, MA, Instructor 
Dr Divakar, PhD
Academic Programmes • BSc/ BA Yoga
• MA/ M Sc Yoga
• PhD Yoga
School of Ancient Wisdom and Yogic Studies
BSc/ BA Yoga
Eligibility : 10+2 (Any stream) with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
MA/ MSc Yoga
Eligibility : Graduation in any stream with minimum 50% 
marks
Duration: 4 semesters
PhD Yoga
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Yoga/ Spirituality/ 
related discipline with minimum of 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline 
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters

PhD, LLM
Associate Dean
Dr Nandan Sharma
Dr Nandan Sharma has pioneered new skills-based teaching
methods, transforming traditional legal education. His research
on the dynamics of the worldwide patent law, with a focus on the 
pharmaceutical business in India, earned him a PhD from Himachal 
University. Nandan has over 15 years of experience in academia,
research, and administration. Prior to joining Shoolini University, he 
taught at the LR Institute of Legal Studies, the Law School of IEC
University, and Maharaja Agrasen University. He teaches intellectual 
property, alternative dispute resolution, and banking law. He has
written five books on issues such as intellectual property rights,
women's empowerment, precedent, media laws, and human rights, 
and he has published over twenty research papers in prestigious
journals. Nandan is the National Secretary at Law and Social Justice 
Unit of National Youth Council of India. 
School of Law
As a student at the School of Law, you will be exposed to 
legal principles in a wide array of topics and also learn analytical and critical-thinking skills from experienced legal practitioners, providing consultancies to law firms and corporate 
world. The School offers a great learning experience and a 
pathway to successful practicing or non-practicing legal 
career. Need for legal services in new areas of law such as 
cyber law, international business transaction law, health care 
and environmental laws, and intellectual property rights 
(IPR), has opened unlimited career opportunities with competitive starting salaries.
Facilities
Moot Court /IT Centre/ e-Lab/ Language Lab / Audio-Visual 
Room/ Tutorial Rooms /Conference Rooms /Seminar Halls/ 
Video conferencing/Online lectures.
Faculty Members
Adjunct Professors
Mr SS Thakur former Hon’ble Justice of High Court of 
Himachal Pradesh
Prof NK Thakur, PhD (Law)
Professors
Dr Nandan Sharma, PhD, LLM, Associate Dean
Associate Professors
Dr Renu Pal Sood, PhD
Dr Chander Mohan Gupta, LLM, MBA, PhD
Assistant Professors
Ms Palak Sharma, LLM
Ms Richika, LLM
Ms Anupriya Thakur, LLB, PGDPM & LW
Ms Monika Thakur, LLM
Ms Swati Soni, LLM, PhD (Pursuing)
Ms Poonam Pant, LLM, PhD (Pursuing)
Ms Ishani Vaidya, LLM, PhD (Pursuing)
Ms Mukul Rani Parajuli, LLM, PhD (Pursuing)
Mr Vineet Kumar, LLM, PhD (Pursuing)
Academic Programmes • BA LLB
• LLB
• LLM
• PhD Human Rights/Cyber Law/IPR/ADR
BA LLB
Eligibility : 10+2 in any discipline with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 10 semesters
LLB
Eligibility : Graduation in any discipline with minimum 55% 
marks
Duration: 6 semesters
LLM
Eligibility : LLB/ BALLB with minimum 55% marks.
Duration: 2 Semesters
PhD Human Rights/Cyber Law/IPR/ADR
Eligibility : Masters degree in Legal Studies/ related discipline 
with minimum of 55% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
Reservation of seats for bonafide Himachali/ SC/ ST/ physically handicapped/economically weaker section candidates 
as per the rules of Himachal Pradesh & Central Government.
Number of seats for Lateral Entry as per AICTE norms.
Minimum eligibility marks relaxable for SC/ST/backward classes and others as per the rules of
Himachal Pradesh Government.
Roaster for admissions as per HP Government rules.
Criteria for admissions to professional courses shall be in accordance with HP government Notification No. EDN (TE) 
F (10) 2/2018 dated 4th May 2018.
PhD: Shoolini University's multiple choice entrance test, and assessment of research aptitude through concept note & 
faculty interaction
IMAGE

PhD,
Dean
Prof Deepak Nandkishore 
Kapoor, 
Prof Deepak Kapoor got his PhD in 
Pharmaceutical Sciences from UGC-CAS, UIPS, Panjab 
University, Chandigarh. He has more than ten years of teaching, 
research and industrial experience. In industry, he has worked on 
formulation, and research and development for international regulated 
and domestic markets. Prof Kapoor’s key areas of extensive research 
represent development of novel drug delivery systems with a focus on 
nanoparticles, nanoemulsions, niosomes, liposomes, ethosomes, and implantable, topical and transdermal systems. He has various national and 
international publications in the form of a monograph series book, book 
chapters, and research and review articles. He has also filed patents on 
development of novel pharmaceutical formulations.
Kapoor, 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences is Ranked 39th among Top 
Pharmacy Colleges in India in NIRF Ranking 2019 by the Ministry 
of Human Resource Development, GOI. The B Pharmacy programme is accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA). 
The school focuses on excellence in teaching, promoting lifelong-learning and preparing students for challenges in the field 
of pharmacy, committed to produce quality human resource as 
per the requirements of the industry and community for the welfare of the people and to build national healthcare system. It is 
approved by AICTE and PCI and has Memorandum of Understandings/ collaborations with several reputed multinational 
pharmaceutical industries for the student internship/ training 
and research activities. It is fascinated with highly qualified and 
experienced faculty including PhDs who enjoy national and international reputation for research and education. In addition to 
teaching and research, our faculty members are also involved in 
professional activities such as consultative services for pharmaceutical industry, clinical pharmacy practice, drug information 
services, and analysis of traditional remedies.
The National Conference on ‘Drug Discovery, Development and 
Clinical Trials’; National Seminar on ‘Importance of Cell Lines in 
Pharmaceutical Research in India’ and ‘An Interface for bridging 
the skill gap between Industry & Academia’; National Conference 
on ‘Research Trends in Future Drug Development: Exploration of 
Aromatic Flora’; Workshops on ‘Emerging Trends in Pharmacological Education & Research’; Celebration of World Pharmacist 
Day and ‘Pharma-Sprint’ are some of the important events organised at the School.
Summit Research Programme - 
A reimagined B Pharmacy degree programme
Shoolini has taken the lead to develop a unique research oriented degree programme that prepares students for global opportunities at leading academic institutions and corporate R&D 
teams. Fully integrated with regular engineering curriculum, the 
Summit Research programme provides hands-on exposure to 
high quality research, experience with writing technical papers, 
personal mentorship and interactions with internationally acclaimed research practitioners and experts.
• Work with faculty and PhD students on live cutting-edge 
 research
• Option to study and conduct lab work in premier 
 universities abroad
• Get individually mentored by academicians and 
 practitioners
• Need-Blind Admission policy
Current Areas of Research • Sustainable utilization of Himalayan biodiversity
• Biological potential of natural products for treating 
 human diseases and disorders
• Formulation and development of pharmaceutical 
 preparations
• Drug Delivery Systems
• Drug Discovery and QSAR Modeling
Linkages with International Academia and 
Multinational Pharmaceutical Industries
The School of Pharmaceutical Sciences has a quadripartite 
alliance with the Pharmacy and Poisons Board (PPB) of the 
Government of Kenya, Tirupati Medicare Ltd and Venus Remedies Ltd. for joint research. It has also developed alliances 
with well-established concern like, Zydus Cadila Healthcare 
Ltd, Fresenius Kabi Oncology Ltd, Alkem Labs, Alembic Ltd, 
Meridian Ltd, Ozone Ltd Macleods Pharma, Tripuati Medicare 
Ltd and US Vitamin Ltd for student training and research 
projects.
The School has research projects from DST, ICMR, DRDO and 
INMAS, and consultancy projects from Meridian Medicare 
Ltd,, Tirupati Medicare Ltd., All India Institute of Ayurveda, 
New Delhi and Uttarakhand Ayurveda University, Haridwar. 
Academic & Research Scholarships
The School of Pharmacy is recognised for the award of 
AICTE-GPAT scholarships for the following M Pharmacy in 
Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Pharmacology. 
Faculty Members
Adjunct Professors & Visiting Faculty
Dr Amarjeet Singh, PhD (Pharmaceutical Chemistry); 
Adjunct Professor
Dr Nirmalendu Kumar Pandeya, PhD; Adjunct Professor
Dr Gaurav Sahay, PhD; Adjunct Professor
Dr Kamal Dua, PhD; Visiting Faculty
Mr Sumit Gupta, MBA; Visiting Faculty
Professors
Dr Deepak Nandkishore Kapoor; PhD; Pharmaceutics
Dr Deepak Kumar, M Pharma, PhD; Pharmaceutical
Chemistry
Dr Rohit Goyal, PhD; Pharmacology
Associate Professors
Dr Poonam Negi, PhD, GPAT; Pharmaceutics
Dr Navneet Kumar Upadhyay M Pharmacy; Pharmaceutics
Dr Swati Pundir, M Pharm, PhD; Pharmacognosy
Dr Lalit Sharmar, M Pharm. PhD; Pharmacognosy
Mr Anshul Jamwal, M Pharm
Assistant Professors
Dr Arun Prashar, M Pharma, PhD; Pharmacology
Dr Aditi Sharma, M Pharm, GPAT; Pharmacology
Dr Hemlata Kaurav, PhD
Mr Abhishek Kumar Sharma, M Pharm, GPAT, PhD 
(Pursuing); Pharmaceutics
Ms Chetana Kumari, M Pharma, GPAT, PhD (Pursuing); 
Pharmacy
Mr Sunil Kumar, M Pharma; Pharmaceutical Chemistry, PhD 
(Pursuing)
Ms Dhriti Verma, M Pharma, PhD (Pursuing); Pharmaceutics
Ms Monika Prakash Singh, M Pharm, PhD (Pursuing); Natural Products
Ms Nishtha, PhD (Pursuing)
Mr Deepak Kumar, PhD (Pursuing)
Ms Shikha Mahant, PhD (Pursuing)
Mr Himanshu, PhD (Pursuing)
Ms Tamana Bhardwaj, M Pharm
Ms Anjali Kaushal, M Pharm
Mr Raveen Chauhan, Doctor of Pharmacy; Pharmacy
Mr Prashanta Kumar Deb, M Pharma, PhD (Pursuing)
Ms Shivanshi, MVSc; Veterinarian cum Assistant Professor
Ms Simrandeep Kaur, M Pharm
Ms Samridhi Sharma, M Pharm
Ms Shubhangi Sood, M Pharm
Ms Sonia Rani, M Pharm
Academic Programmes • B Pharmacy
• B Pharmacy (Lateral Entry)
• M Pharmacy 
 Pharmaceutics
 Pharmacology
 Pharmacognosy 
 Pharmaceutical Chemistry
• PhD Pharmaceutical Sciences
 Pharmaceutics
 Pharmacology
 Medicinal Chemistry
 Pharmacognosy 
 Pharmaceutical Chemistry
IMAGE
B Pharmacy
Eligibility : 10+2 (PCB/PCM) with minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
B Pharmacy
(LEET)
Eligibility : Diploma in Pharmacy with 60% marks from an 
institution approved by Pharmacy Council of India
Duration: 6 semesters 
M Pharmacy (Pharmaceutics)
Eligibility : B Pharmacy from an institution approved by 
the Pharmacy Council of India with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
M Pharmacy (Pharmacology)
Eligibility : B Pharmacy from an institution approved by 
the Pharmacy Council of India with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
M Pharmacy (Pharmaceutical Chemistry)
Eligibility : B Pharmacy from an institution approved by the 
Pharmacy Council of India with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
M Pharmacy Pharmacognosy
Eligibility : B Pharmacy from an institution approved by the 
Pharmacy Council of India with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
PhD Pharmaceutical Sciences (Pharmaceutics, Pharmacology, 
Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmacognosy, Pharmaceutical 
Chemistry)
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Pharmacy/ Sciences/ 
related discipline with at least 55% marks.
Duration: 6 semesters
Reservation of seats for bonafide Himachali/ SC/ ST/ physically handicapped/economically weaker section candidates 
as per the rules of Himachal Pradesh & Central Government.
Number of seats for Lateral Entry as per AICTE norms.
Minimum eligibility marks relaxable for SC/ST/backward classes and others as per the rules of
Himachal Pradesh Government.
Roaster for admissions as per HP Government rules.
Criteria for admissions to professional courses shall be in accordance with HP government Notification No. EDN (TE) 
F (10) 2/2018 dated 4th May 2018.

PhD, Post-doc Oxford
Dean
Prof Sunil Puri
The Faculty of Science is dynamic and progressive in its development of new programme initiatives. It is well placed to contribute substantially to 
the goal of Shoolini University becoming a research-led organisation. The teaching is by way of interactive sessions between students and teachers. Our programmes ensure a coherent degree 
structure while encouraging interdisciplinary approach. The faculty 
members keep themselves abreast with new findings through regular 
academic activities such as seminars, workshops and conferences. They 
have also developed liaisons with research institutions of repute in India 
and abroad. Their research activities are well-funded through extra-mural research funding from government agencies such as DRDO, DST, etc. 
Our research-led teaching paves the way for entry into different careers 
since it equips students with advanced transferable skills in information 
gathering, analysis and presentation, which are vital tools in the field of 
science. Graduate and post-graduate students are required to undertake 
research/ projects.
The Faculty of Science is dynamic and progressive in its development of new programme initiatives. It is well placed to contribute substantially to the goal of Shoolini University becoming a research-led organisation. The teaching is by way of 
interactive sessions between students and teachers. Our programmes ensure a coherent degree structure while encouraging interdisciplinary approach. The faculty members keep 
themselves abreast with new findings through regular academic activities such as seminars, workshops and conferences. 
They have also developed liaisons with research institutions of 
repute in India and abroad. Their research activities are 
well-funded through extra-mural research funding from government agencies such as DRDO, DST, etc. Our research-led 
teaching paves the way for entry into different careers since it 
equips students with advanced transferable skills in information gathering, analysis and presentation, which are vital tools 
in the field of science. Graduate and post-graduate students 
are required to undertake research/ projects.
School of Biological & Environmental Sciences
Faculty Members
Professor of Eminence/ Adjunct & Visiting Faculty
Dr IS Dua, PhD, Adjunct Professor; Botany
Prof OP Toky, PhD, Professor of Eminence; Botany
Ms Shashi Sehgal, Adjunct faculty; Botany 
Prof PS Kalsi, PhD; Professor of Eminence
Dr RC Rana, PhD; Professor of Eminence
Dr AK Sharma, PhD; Professor of Eminence
Dr AN Kaushal, PhD; Professor of Eminence
Mr ML Sharma, BE; Visiting Professor
Prof SK Sharma, PhD; Visiting Professor
Prof SS Bari, PhD; Visiting Professor
Prof Suman Bala Beri, PhD; High Energy Physics
Dr Harrison B Prosper, PhD; High Energy Physics
Dr Bhawandeep, PhD; Post Doc Fellow
Faculty of Science
Professors
Prof PK Khosla, PhD, Post-doc Oxford; Former VC HP 
Agricultural University; Botany, Genetics
Dr JM Julka, PhD; Former Visiting Fellow Smithsonian Institution, USA; Former Joint Director & Emeritus Scientist, ZSI; 
Environment Biology, Zoology
Prof Sunil Puri, PhD, Post-doc Oxford; Former Director Higher 
Education, Indira Gandhi Agricultural University, Raipur; 
Prof Nand Lal, PhD, Post-doc, Psychology
Botany
Associate Professors
Dr Rachna Verma, PhD, M Phil, NET; Botany
Dr Anita Chauhan, PhD
Assistant Professors
Dr Amita Kumari, PhD, NET; Botany
Dr Radha, M Phil; PhD; Botany
Dr Priyanka Kumari, PhD; Zoology
Ms Ruhi Thakur, M Sc, PhD (Pursuing); Zoology
Dr Dipika Rana, PhD; Environmental Sciences
Dr Ritesh Banerjee, PhD; Environmental Sciences
Dr Vijay Chauhan, PhD; Botany
Dr Priyanka Chauhan, PhD
Ms Isha Jaswal, M Phil, PhD (Pursuing)
Ms Sangeeta Kakkar, PhD (Pursuing)
Dr Dhriti Kapoor, PhD
Academic Programmes
• B Sc (Hons) Botany
• B Sc (Hons) Zoology
• B Sc (Hons)
• BA (Hons)/ B Sc (Hons) Psychology and Counseling 
• BA (Hons)/ B Sc (Hons) Clinical Psychology 
• BA (Hons)/ B Sc (Hons) Behavioural & Neuro Psychology
• MSc Botany
• M Sc Zoology
• M Sc Environmental Sciences
• MA/ M Sc Clinical Psychology 
• MA/ M Sc Psychology
• PhD Botany 
• PhD Zoology
• PhD Environmental Sciences
• PhD Psychology
BSc (Hons) Botany 
Eligibility: 10+2 in science stream with minimum 55% marks 
Duration: 8 semesters 
BSc (Hons) Zoology 
Eligibility: 10+2 in science stream with minimum 55% marks 
Duration: 8 semesters
B Sc (Hons)
Eligibility: 10+2 in science stream with minimum 55% marks 
Duration: 8 semesters
BA (Hons)/ B Sc (Hons) Psychology and Counseling
Eligibility: 10+2 in science stream with minimum 55% marks 
Duration: 8 semesters
BA (Hons)/ B Sc (Hons) Behavioural & Neuro Psychology
Eligibility: 10+2 in science stream with minimum 55% marks 
Duration: 8 semesters
BA (Hons)/ B Sc (Hons) Clinical Psychology
Eligibility: 10+2 in science stream with minimum 55% marks 
Duration: 8 semesters
-
-
MSc Botany 
Eligibility: BSc with Botany as one of the subjects with mini
mum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
MSc Zoology
Eligibility: BSc with Zoology as one of the subjects with min
imum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
MSc Environment Science
Eligibility: BSc in any stream with minimum 50% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
MA/ MSc Psychology
Eligibility : Graduation in any discipline with Psychology as
one of the subject and minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
MA/ MSc Clinical Psychology
Eligibility : Graduation in any discipline with Psychology as
one of the subject and minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
PhD Environmental Sciences
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Life Sciences/ related 
PhD Psychology
Eligibility : Two year masters degree in Psychology/ related
discipline with minimum 55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline
with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
discipline with minimum of 55% marks OR 4-year Bachelor’s 
degree with Research in related discipline with minimum CGPA 
of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
School of Advanced Chemical Sciences
Professors
Dr Pradeep Singh, PhD; Physical Chemistry
Dr Pankaj Raizada, PhD; Inorganic Chemistry
Dr Gaurav Sharma,, PhD
Dr Amit Kumar, PhD
PhD Botany
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Life Sciences/ related 
discipline with minimum of 55% marks OR 4-year Bachelor’s 
degree with Research in related discipline with minimum 
CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Zoology 
Eligibility Two year masters degree in Life Sciences/ related 
discipline with minimum of 55% marks OR 4-year Bachelor’s 
degree with Research in related discipline with minimum 
CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
MSc/ M Tech Nanotechnology
Eligibility: BSc or B. Tech Nanotechnology or an MSc 
Nanotechnology/ Biotechnology/ Microbiology/ Biochemistry or any other branch of Life Sciences with 
minimum of 50% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
MSc Chemistry
Eligibility: BSc with Chemistry as one of the subjects 
with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
PhD Chemistry
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Life Sciences/ 
Physical Sciences/ related discipline with minimum of 
55% marks OR 4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with minimum CGPA of 
7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
Assistant Professors
Dr Anirban Saha, PhD, Post Doc; Physics
Dr Mamta Shandilya, PhD; Nanophysics
Dr Pawan Kumar, M Phil PhD; Physics
Dr Rohit Jasrotia, M Sc, PhD; Physics
Dr Pooja Dhiman, PhD; Physics
School of Physics and Materials 
Science
Professors
Dr Radheshyam Rai, PhD, Post-doc
Associate Professors
Dr Rakesh Kumar Shukla, PhD
Dr Itika Kainthla, PhD
Ms Gun Anit Kaur, M Sc; PhD (Pursuing); Physics
Dr Nitika Devi, PhD
Dr Garima Rana, PhD
Dr Abhishek Kandwal, PhD, Post-doc
Academic Programmes
• BSc (Hons) Physics
• MSc Physics
• PhD Physics
• PhD Materials Science
Ms Ekta Bala, MSc
Dr Anita Sudhaik, PhD
Dr Sonu, PhD
Dr Saima, PhD
Academic Programmes
• BSc (Hons) Chemistry
• B Sc (Hons) Nanotechnology
• B Tech Nanotechnology
• MSc/ M Tech Nanotechnology
• M Sc Chemistry Research
• PhD Chemistry
BSc (Hons) Chemistry
Eligibility: 10+2 in Science stream with minimum 55% marks
Duration: 8 semesters 
B Sc (Hons) Nanotechnology
Eligibility: 10+2 with any of three following subjects: Physics,
Mathematics, Chemistry, computer sciences, electronics,
information technology, biology, informatics practices,
biotechnology, technical vocational subject, agriculture,
engineering graphics, business studies, entrepreneurship,
in PCB/ PCM with minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters 
B Tech Nanotechnology
Eligibility: 10+2 with any of the three following subjects — 
physics /mathematics / chemistry / computer science / elec
tronics / information technology / biology / informatics 
practices / biotechnology / technical vocational subject / 
agriculture / engineering graphics / business studies / entre
preneurship and minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters
Dr Prem Prakash Sharma, PhD
Ms Ekta Bala, MSc
Dr Anita Sudhaik, PhD
Dr Prem Prakash Sharma, PhD
Assistant Professors/ Research Associates
Associate Professors
Dr Prem Prakash Sharma, PhD
Basis of Admissions: 
Merit of the qualifying examination or otherwise specified entrance exams for the following programmes:
• PhD: Shoolini University's multiple choice entrance test, and assessment of research aptitude through concept note 
& faculty interaction
Reservation of seats for bonafide Himachali/ SC/ ST/ physically handicapped/economically weaker section 
candidates as per the rules of Himachal Pradesh & Central 
Government.
Number of seats for Lateral Entry as per AICTE norms.
Minimum eligibility marks relaxable for SC/ST/backward classes and others as per the rules of Himachal 
Pradesh Government.
Roaster for admissions as per HP Government rules.
Criteria for admissions to professional courses shall be in accordance with HP 
government Notification No. EDN (TE) F (10) 2/2018 dated 4th May 2018.
BSc (Hons) Physics
Eligibility: 10+2 in Science stream with minimum 55% 
marks
Duration: 8 semesters 
MSc Physics
Eligibility: BSc with Physics as one of the subject with 
minimum 55% marks.
Duration: 8 semesters
PhD Physics
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Life Sciences/ 
Physical Sciences/ related discipline with minimum of 
55% marks OR
4- -year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related dis
cipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 4 semesters
PhD Materials Science
Eligibility: Two year masters degree in Life Sciences/ 
Physical Sciences/ related discipline with minimum of 
55% marks OR
4-year Bachelor’s degree with Research in related discipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 4 semesters

PhD, Dean
Prof Y S Negi 
An agricultural and natural resource economist by interest and 
training, Prof. Negi has his PhD from the University of California, 
Berkeley. He is a well known teacher and researcher and has handled 
a number of projects in the field of agriculture, natural resource economics and agribusiness management. Before joining Shoolini University, Prof. Negi also served at the Agro-economic Research Centre, 
Shimla, HPKV, Palampur, and Dr YS Parmar University, Nauni, Solan. He 
has been on different committees as a socio-economic expert at IIHS 
(UGC centre of excellence) HP University; ICFRE, Dehradun, HFRI, 
Shimla.
Prof Y S Negi 
The Faculty of Agriculture aims to instill in our graduates a 
variety of technical and managerial skills to prepare them 
to take challenges of the fast changing field of agriculture. 
The four year graduate degree programme of the Faculty 
is being run as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of 
Agricultural Research. Students have the option to choose 
electives in the second year of the programme. Course 
modules like Rural Agriculture Work Experience & 
Agro-industrial Attachment and the experiential learning 
programme give the students a hands-on experience and 
confidence to face the real life challenges in their agri-entrepreneurial endeavours. Growth and development of 
agriculture is important for overall economic development 
as the expansion of market for industrial goods and services hinges on agriculture growth. 
Agriculture would continue to require trained human resource in its various sub-disciplines, 
especially scientific agriculture. Agri-graduates would thus 
have a variety of career choices with lucrative compensation packages.
School of Agriculture
Being an agro-based economy, India has made rapid 
strides in agriculture sector. Efforts are being made to 
improve food production in the country and doubling 
farmer’s income through diversified farming coupled with 
product processing. The need is to associate processing 
units along with the farm produce so that the farmers, 
particularly in hilly areas, are able to raise their economic 
status. Modern agriculture practices, however, have 
emerged as highly knowledge based systems. Accordingly, 
our farmers require agriculture education at all levels so 
that they are better equipped to handle various challenges, especially that of globalization. We are committed to 
produce able agriculture scientists and engineers, who are 
well equipped to meet the challenges of climate change 
and nascent second green revolution.
Faculty Members
Adjunct Faculty
Prof SC Tewari, PhD, (Agricultural Economics)
Prof DR Sharma, PhD (Genetics)
Prof UK Kohli, PhD (Vegetable Sciences)
Faculty of Agriculture
Facilities
Agriculture farms -3; crop cafeteria, apiary, vermicomposting unit, dairy farm, milk chilling plant, biogas, spectrophotometer, well-equipped UG/ PG/ Research Labs.
Academic Programmes
• B Sc (Hons) Agriculture
• M Sc Agriculture (Specialization: Entomology, Plant 
 Pathology, Agriculture Economics, Agriculture 
 Extension Education, Agronomy, Soil Science, and 
 Plant Breeding and Genetics)
Professors
Prof Y S Negi, PhD; Wildland Resource Sciences Economics, 
USA
Prof GK Sharma, PhD; Agro Forestry
Prof Satish Kumar Gupta, PhD; Plant Pathology
Prof KC Sharma, PhD; Horticulture Entomology
Prof DD Sharma, PhD; Extension Education
Mr Mukesh Goswami, MBA, Director
Associate Professors
Dr Ravinder Nath, PhD
Assistant Professors
Dr Santanu Mukherjee, PhD
Dr Shweta Sharma, PhD
Dr Sanchit Thakur, PhD
Dr Rajendra Kumar, PhD
Dr Devanshi Pandit, PhD
Dr Ratika Kayastha, PhD
Dr Kratikeya Choudhary, PhD
Dr Vinaykumar Rachappanavar, PhD
Dr Anshul Kumar, PhD
Dr Neeraj Singh Parihar, PhD
Dr Vinay Chandel, PhD
Dr Bhagyashree Bhatt, PhD
Dr Sunakshi Gautam, PhD
BSc (Hons) Agriculture
Eligibility: 10+2 in PCM/ PCB with minimum 60% marks
Duration: 8 semesters 
MSc Agriculture (Specialization: Agriculture Extension Education/ Agronomy/ Soil Science/ Entomology/ Agricultural 
Economics/ Plant Pathology/ Plant Breeding and Genetics)
Eligibility: BSc Agriculture/Horticulture with 6/10 OGPA or 
60%.
Duration: 4 semesters
Basis of Admissions: 
NEET/JEE/ SAT or Shoolini University's multiple choice entrance test, and faculty interaction
MSc Agriculture: Shoolini University's multiple choice entrance test, and faculty interaction
Reservation of seats for bonafide Himachali/ SC/ ST/ physically handicapped/economically weaker section candidates as per the rules of Himachal Pradesh & Central Government.
Number of seats for Lateral Entry as per AICTE norms.
Minimum eligibility marks relaxable for SC/ST/backward classes and others as per the rules of Himachal Pradesh 
Government.
Roaster for admissions as per HP Government rules.
Criteria for admissions to professional courses shall be in accordance with HP government Notification No. EDN (TE) 
F (10) 2/2018 dated 4th May 2018.
PhD Forestry
Eligibility: Two year's master’s degree in Agriculture/ Horticulture/ Forestry or any related discipline with minimum 55% 
marks OR 4-year bachelor’s degree with Research in related 
discipline with minimum CGPA of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
PhD Agriculture (Agronomy, Agricultural Extension Education, 
Entomology, Plant Pathology, Soil Science, Plant Breeding and 
Genetics)
Eligibility: Two-year master’s degree in Agriculture/ related discipline with minimum of 55% marks OR 4-year bachelor’s 
degree with Research in related discipline with minimum CGPA 
of 7.5/10 or 75% marks
Duration: 6 semesters
• PhD Forestry
• PhD Agriculture (Agronomy, Agricultural Extension 
 Education, Entomology,Plant Pathology, Soil Science, 
 Plant Breeding and Genetics)
Scholarships
To attract meritorious students and as a part of its social responsibility, Shoolini University 
has instituted significant number of scholarships. This initiative of Shoolini University is 
aimed at rewarding the hard work of students towards achieving excellence in education 
and also removing the barriers to higher education for students from low income groups.
Hostels
Admission to the hostels will be on annual basis, but the charges can be paid semester 
wise. Hostel accommodation will be allotted only on the production of ID card and hostel 
fee receipt. As far as possible, the wardens try to accommodate the candidates with the 
roommate of the same batch. However, it may not be possible to do so in all cases at time 
of admission. Also, certain hostel and room types are in greater demand and senior students have priority in the allotment of rooms. Provision of hostel accommodation to the admitted students is subject to availability of rooms and allotment will be made on first come 
first serve basis. In case of non-availability of rooms, candidates must make their own alternate arrangements. However, the university will assist the students in finding accommodation in decent paying guest houses with good antecedents.
Hostel residents are required to adhere to the following rules and regulations:
The right of admission to the hostels is reserved.
Admission to the hostels will be open at the beginning of the session.
Admission shall have to be sought afresh in every academic session and will be confirmed 
subject to the following conditions:
Receipt of a duplicate admission form duly signed by the parents / guardian of the resident. 
At the time of admission an applicant will fill such a form and attach a duly stamped envelope addressed to his/her parents/ guardian.
Satisfaction of the Dean Resident Students (DRS) regarding proper conduct and regular payment and dues of hostel, mess, and canteen in case of ex residents.
Residents should not keep cash or jewelry or other valuables in their rooms. The responsibility for safety of their belongings will be entirely that of the residents, who are advised to take 
out an insurance against theft and fire. The management will not be responsible for any loss.
Consumption of alcohol/intoxicants/ smoking is strictly prohibited. Anyone found indulging 
in the above will be liable to face disciplinary action including expulsion from the Hostel.
Residents permitting or abetting unauthorized occupation of the rooms/ seats shall be liable 
to
Expulsion from the hostel.
Forfeiture of securities.
Imposition of a fine depending upon the extent of indiscipline.
In case of non-payment of dues or violation of any one of the hostel rules by a resident, the 
DRS may get his/her room locked/vacated.
Every resident shall be responsible for the safety of the furniture/fixtures in the room. Furniture is not to be removed from one room to another. Damage to hostel property is a serious 
offence; any resident found guilty of damaging hostel property will be liable to disciplinary 
action as per hostel rules including expulsion from the hostel / university.
Use of electrical appliances, other than permitted ones, is strictly prohibited in the hostel.
Residents should observe strict economy in the use of electricity and water. They are required to switch off the lights, fans and other appliances as and when they leave their rooms, 
common room and dining hall. They should keep the geysers in the bathrooms off when not 
in use.
Residents are not to tamper with the electrical and sanitary installations. The cost of repair/ 
replacement due to any damage done to them will be realized from the residents.
Students are not allowed to carry mess plates in their rooms. Food will be served in the room 
only if a student is sick, on depositing Identity card.
Hostel allotment is for one year. A student cannot leave the hostel in mid semester.
During summer break, all students have to vacate the rooms and put their belongings in 
cloak rooms.
Hostel fee is subject to revision.
Students have to keep their rooms neat and clean. Their rooms will be inspected by wardens 
periodically.
Washing of clothes (except under clothes) in the hostel is prohibited. Laundry services are 
provided and are to be used by the students.
Parents/Visitors are not allowed entry beyond the designated area or visiting room as it shall 
disturb other students.
Possession, distribution and consumption of alcohol, prohibited drugs, chew able tobacco, 
smoking in the hostel complex is not allowed.
Students will follow proper channels for getting their problems addressed.
Parents, friends and visitors are not permitted to stay in resident’s room.
• Hostel charges are to be deposited for the whole academic year at the time of admissions. 
 Under special circumstances, it may be paid in maximum of two installments but with the 
 prior permission of the Vice Chancellor. Hostel charges once paid are not refundable. In case 
 a student leaves the hostel with prior permission of the University Authority, they shall have 
 to pay the room rent for the entire academic year.
• Failure to comply with the hostel rules may result in a fine up to Rs 1,000 or expulsion from 
 the hostel or institute or both depending upon the gravity of the violation. In case of 
 expulsion, the student will forfeit all the deposits and shall not be eligible for any claim.
• Disrespect to DRS Superintendents, Chief Warden & hostel wardens will lead to expulsion 
 from the hostel.
Dates for the payment of all fees & other charges
• First semester (new admissions) at the time of admissions
• Subsequent semesters 
 2nd / 4th /6th /8th sem: 1-15 December each year
 3rd /5th /7th sem: 1-15 May each year
• Late fee of Rs 50/- per day will be charged if the fees are not paid by due date (vide Dept of 
 Higher Education, Govt of HP notification No. EDN-A-Kha(9)-15/2018-Fee, dated 7th April, 
 2018)
Transportation
Transport facilities are available for students and faculty of the university from Solan and surrounding areas such as Nauni, Zero Point (junction of Solan- Oachghat), Kasauli, Parwanoo, Dharampur, Kumarhatti, Rajgarh and Shimla. Students desiring to avail the bus facility may register 
with the University’s Accounts Office at City Office, SILB, The Mall, Solan or with the Transport 
Coordinator, Bajhol Campus. The details of the transportation charges from various places can be 
obtained from the offices of the Registrar/Admissions/ Transport. No refund shall be permitted 
under any circumstances, even if the student opts not to avail the facility during the middle of 
the semester.
Registration
1. All students must register with the University after their admission and again at the beginning of each semester as notified from time to time.
2. Only those students shall be allowed to register who have paid the full semester fee and 
hostel / transportation charges as applicable for the ensuing semester.
3. Failure to complete registration in time will lead to cancellation of admission. In that case, 
they have to seek readmission.
• Hostel charges are to be deposited for the whole academic year at the time of admissions. 
 Under special circumstances, it may be paid in maximum of two installments but with the 
 prior permission of the Vice Chancellor. Hostel charges once paid are not refundable. In case 
 a student leaves the hostel with prior permission of the University Authority, they shall have 
 to pay the room rent for the entire academic year.
• Failure to comply with the hostel rules may result in a fine up to Rs 1,000 or expulsion from 
 the hostel or institute or both depending upon the gravity of the violation. In case of 
 expulsion, the student will forfeit all the deposits and shall not be eligible for any claim.
• Disrespect to DRS Superintendents, Chief Warden & hostel wardens will lead to expulsion 
 from the hostel.
Dates for the payment of all fees & other charges
• First semester (new admissions) at the time of admissions
• Subsequent semesters 
 2nd / 4th /6th /8th sem: 1-15 December each year
 3rd /5th /7th sem: 1-15 May each year
• Late fee of Rs 50/- per day will be charged if the fees are not paid by due date (vide Dept of 
 Higher Education, Govt of HP notification No. EDN-A-Kha(9)-15/2018-Fee, dated 7th April, 
 2018)
Transportation
Transport facilities are available for students and faculty of the university from Solan and surrounding areas such as Nauni, Zero Point (junction of Solan- Oachghat), Kasauli, Parwanoo, Dharampur, Kumarhatti, Rajgarh and Shimla. Students desiring to avail the bus facility may register 
with the University’s Accounts Office at City Office, SILB, The Mall, Solan or with the Transport 
Coordinator, Bajhol Campus. The details of the transportation charges from various places can be 
obtained from the offices of the Registrar/Admissions/ Transport. No refund shall be permitted 
under any circumstances, even if the student opts not to avail the facility during the middle of 
the semester.
Registration
1. All students must register with the University after their admission and again at the beginning of each semester as notified from time to time.
2. Only those students shall be allowed to register who have paid the full semester fee and 
hostel / transportation charges as applicable for the ensuing semester.
3. Failure to complete registration in time will lead to cancellation of admission. In that case, 
they have to seek readmission.
• Late fee of Rs 50/- per day will be charged if the fees are not paid by due date (vide Dept of 
Refund of Fee
As per UGC norms the refund of fees will be as follows:
• Late fee of Rs 50/- per day will be charged if the fees are not paid by due date (vide Dept of 
%age of refund of aggregate fees
withdrawal of admission is served
Point of time when notice of
withdrawal of admission is served
90 % 15 days before the formally notified
last date of admissions
80 % Not more than 15 days after the
formerly notified last date of
admissions
50 % More than 15 days but less than 30
days after formerly notified last
date of admissions
00 % More than 30 days after formally
notified last date of admissions
Dress Code
Shoolini University has made it mandatory for all undergraduate students to follow a proper 
dress code, at least on three specified days in a week. Both boys and girls wear white shirt, 
gray rousers, maroon tie, and navy blue blazer with an insignia on the pocket, gray socks and 
black shoes. Tie and insignia shall be provided by the university at a reasonable cost. The 
postgraduate students, however, follow the above dress code on formal and ceremonial occasions. Students should procure dress as per dress code within two weeks from the commencement of the academic year.
Education Loans 
Shoolini University has tied up with Punjab National Bank to make easy education loan available to prospective students. The student can cover both tuition fee and hostel expenses.
Anti-Ragging Committee
Commitment for Safe & Secure Campus
Chancellor Prof PK Khosla has pledged to make the University drugs, alcohol, smoking 
and ragging free. He solicits the support of all the parents and students to fulfill this 
pledge.
Members Phone Number
Prof Poonam Nanda, Convener 082194-43632
Dr Deepak N Kapoor, Co-convener 096461-42349
Ms Rita, Hostel Superintendent 092183-01018
Col TPS Gill, Director Operations 099888-53703
Mr Lalit, Hostel Warden 094181 – 75744
DM Solan
(Nominee of District Admn.)
0179-2223707
Dr Neeraj Gandotra, Chief Warden 094182-74612
Shoolini University
Approvals/Recognitions
Established by State Government 
Shoolini University is established by the State Act of Government of Himachal Pradesh 
(Notification No. EDN –A-Gha(8) - 10/2006 dated 15th October, 2009).
Recognised by University Grants Commission
Shoolini University became an officially recognized university by UGC in February 2011 (UGC F 
No. 8-1/2010 (CCP)-1/PU), dated 7.2.2011).
Approved by Pharmacy Council of India (PCI)
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences is approved by Pharmacy Council of India (S. No. 4/917. www.pci.nic.in
NBA Accreditation
The B Pharmacy programme is accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA). 
AICTE Approval
As per law, Universities do not require AICTE approval. Only institutions which are affiliated to 
Universities require approval. As Shoolini University is a Bonafide University established by a 
State Act, its courses do not require AICTE approval. This standing of law is notified in the case 
of Bharathidasan University vs AICTE.
NAAC Accredited
B ++ Grade from National Assessment and Accreditation Council, Bangalore
How to Apply for Admission?
1. Select your course of choice at www.shooliniuniversity.com and satisfy yourself about your 
eligibility for the course.
2. Start filling the Admission Form online at www.shooliniuniversity.com through our ‘Apply 
Now’ tab.
3. On submission of your complete online admission form, you will be required to pay Rs. 
850/-.
4. You can download the free copy of the university prospectus online through our website. 
Jurisdiction
In case of any dispute, decision of the Registrar of Shoolini University will be final & the 
territorial jurisdiction for any legal action shall be limited to Solan (Himachal Pradesh) only.
How to reach?
By Road: Well-connected by an extensive network of roads. Solan can be reached 
conveniently, by a taxi or bus from Delhi, Chandigarh and Kalka.
By Air: The nearest airports are at Chandigarh and Shimla
By Rail: The nearest board gauge railway station is at Kalka, while the closest narrow gauge 
rail station is at Solan.
Some facts
1hour 30 minute drive from Chandigarh International Airport
1hour drive from Shimla, the scenic capital of Himachal Pradesh
30 minute drive from the beautiful hills of Kasauli
20 minute drive from Solan, closest narrow gauge rail station
30 minute drive from Barog